
  The Sobel-Feldman operator (or simply Sobel filter) is a computer
  vision algorithm which can be used for edge detection. The filter
  takes a grayscale image as it's input and create another image
  emphasising the edges. This project uses the sobel filter as described
  in (7). The operator is named after Irwin Sobel and Gary M. Feldman,
  who introduced the idea in 1968 at Stanford Artificial Intelligence
  Laboratory (SAIL). This filter uses the convolution operator to
  extract the edges from image by the change in magnitude.

  Convolution is an operation which takes two matrices (an input and a
  kernel) and outputs another matrix which is of same size as the input
  matrix. It is the process of adding each element of the input to its
  local neighbors, weighted by the kernel. The convolution operation is
  denoted by *​. The operation usually uses a 3 * 3 sized kernel, but it
  is not necessary. Convolution is a simple to implement and fast
  operation to implement. But it is also very useful allowing for
  multiple useful filters. Some of the most simple and useful ones are
  Gaussian Blur, Sharpening and Sobel Filter (which we are using).

  This project only uses the 3 * 3 sized kernels, this is done to make
  implementation simpler. This means in our case if the kernel is K and
  the input is I. Then the output O is given as
  So we can have our Matrix class as 
  But this function will not work for the pixels at the border of the
  input matrix. Since if we try to get the the value for border pixel
  [0, 0] we will need to get $I[-1, -1]$, $I[-1, 0]$, etc. pixels which
  do not exist since there are no pixels to the left. There are three
  common ways to solve this problem
  + Filling with zeros, so that pixels outside the input are zero
  + Wrapping, the image is wrapped on all eight corners of the image
  + Mirroring, we mirror the image along the perimeter of the image

  This project will fill with zeros if we need a pixel outside the
  boundry of the image.

  Now that we know the definition of convolution and how to handle the
  edge cases, we can implement the this operation in code.

  The sobel operator needs two convolution operations to detect the
  edges. The sobel operator works by calculating the change in image
  intensity, that is it works by calculating the difference in value of
  the value compared to its neighbors. The two convolution operations
  are to get the vertical changes and horizontal changes
  1. Horizontal changes: This is represented as $G_x$ and is calculated

  2. Vertical changes: This is represented as $G_y$ and is calculated as


  We don't need the direction of the edge, we only need the
  magnitude. To calculate the magnitude, we will combine both the above
  results \[ G = \sqrt{G_x^2 + G_y^2} \]

  Using the Matrix class we implemented in previous section, we can
  implement this algorithm as

  The code to calculate magnitude is as follows

  Finally, we will output the image by converting the magnitude to an
  integer value between 0 and 255 by using the maximum magnitude.

  The result of the sobel filter on one of the image from our dataset is
  shown in Figure 3. Here, we have shown the output in form of a image
  by converting magnitude to an integer between 0 and 255. In the
  project, we work using magnitudes directly.

  A neural network is a type of machine learning model. It is inspired
  by the human brain, which is composed of neurons that form different
  pathways to process data and learn patterns. To mimic this behaviour,
  neural networks in coumputers are made of artificial neurons. An
  artificial neuron is a function which is conceived as a model of
  biological neuron in a neural network. An artificial neuron is the
  smallest unit of the Artificial Neural Network (ANN). The artificial
  neuron is based on how biological neurons work in human brain.
