
  Sign Languages are languages that use visual gestures for
  communication rather than spoken words. These languages are also
  considered natural languages, meaning they evolved over time according
  to the needs of the users of language. This means that they are very
  different from the verbal languages and have grammer and lexicon of
  their own. This makes communication between the users of sign language
  and verbal languages difficult. Thus there is a need for sign language
  recognition systems which can help bridge the barrier. With recent
  developments in computer vision there is room for models which are
  faster and easier to deploy on weaker hardware.

  Sign Language Recognition using computers is a task with many
  obstacles. The high number of possible gestures means we need a
  recognition model which can distinguish between a myriad of
  classes. The gestures also look very similar which makes
  distinguishing them harder. Images tend to have a large number of
  features. But more features does not mean the model will give better
  predictions. To increase the accuracy of a recognition model, we need
  to extract features that are relevant to our predictions. Since hands
  are very complex, having a multitude of different skin types and
  tones; it is requisite to preprocess the input data to extract only
  necessary features.

  The motivation for this project stems from need for communication
  between users of sign languge and verbal languages. This project aims
  to create a model which can give fast and accurate predictions. It
  should also be able to run on weaker hardware. Another goal was that
  the whole system is able to run on a single machine. The goal was to
  make the project more portable. This also means not using a
  server-client model; where client can send data to a server and a more
  powerful server can make predictions and send results back to
  client. Therefore, it is essential for the model and the user
  interface to be light weight. This project serves to show that a
  lightweight recognizer that can classify an image into one of a large
  number of classes and can be integrated into other applications is
  feasible with innovations in machine learning.

  This project will focus specifically on the prediction of alphabets
  and digits of Indian Sign Language. A model that could translate the
  grammar and lexicon of the complete Indian Sign Language will need a
  recognizer, as well as a model which can translate gestures to written
  languages. Here, only the recognizer which can classify gestures into
  one of the thirty six classes (the alphabets and the digits). The
  project will also not focus on background removal and is trained on
  dataset with background removed. In a practical system, another method
  which could isolate the hands from rest of the image will be
  needed. The recognizer which is built in this project is also
  integrated with live video input using OpenCV for demonstrating the
  portability of the model. To get correct predictions a camera with
  high resolution and an undecorated background (ideally a single color)
  is recommended.

  This project has three components. The first component is used to
  extract features from the input image. This is done using the
  Sobel–Feldman operator or Sobel filter. Edge detection allows us to
  effectively isolate the hands from the rest of the input image. It
  also helps in avoiding features that are not useful such as skin
  color. The second component is the model which makes the
  prediction. This is a simple feed-forward neural network which has
  takes a 128 * 128 size matrix as an input and has 36 nodes (which
  represent the class of the gesture) as outputs. The final component is
  the openCV application which will take the video input using the
  webcam. This acts as the controller for the whole application. It will
  resize the input from the webcam, use the sobel filter, get the
  prediction using the model and finally output it to the user.

  The user will interact with the OpenCV application, where they can see
  the video that is used as the input and it will also show the results
  of the prediction. The sequence diagram in Figure 1 shows how the
  application behaves during operation. A frame is taken from the video,
  which is resized to an 128 * 128 size image. This image is taken in as
  an input by the Sobel Filter. The filter application will return data
  in form of CSV. This data can then be given to model. The prediction
  is then returned to the main application, which shows result to the
  user and takes the next frame to repeat the process.


1.4 Related Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  There have been multiple articles and efforts for Indian Sign Language
  Recognition. Some of the related works which have inspired this
  project and their results will be presented in this chapter.

  + The first work is (3). This paper does Indian Sign Language (ISL)
    recognition using Euclidean distance. The goal of this paper was to
    create a recognition system for Humanoid Robot Interaction (HRI),
    therefore it works on real-time video input. The platform was a made
    using JAVA software. This study managed to get a recognition rate of
    90%
  + The second work is (2). This paper used Histogram of Edge Frequency
    (HOEF) for feature selection. They took images as input, and used
    Support Vector Machine (SVM) for classification. They managed to get
    a recgonition rate of 98.1%
  + The third work is (1). They used artificial neural network (ANN)
    implemented using Matlab in this paper. They worked on real-time
    video input. The recognition rate they got was 93%.

  A summary of results from these different works in shown in table
  below

   Work  Input   Classification      Recognition  Platform 
  ---------------------------------------------------------
   (3)   Video   Eucledian Distance          90%  JAVA     
   (2)   Images  SVM                       98.1%  N/A      
   (1)   Video   ANN                         93%  Matlab   
